Confirm build script exists
Open package.json and confirm a "build" script exists. If the build command is missing Netlify will fail at line 9.
Locally run:
npm ci
npm run build
Fix whatever error appears locally and then push the fix.
Verify the publish directory exists after build
Netlify is configured to publish from dist (line 8). Make sure your build actually produces a dist folder. If your tool produces e.g. build or public instead of dist, either change Netlify’s publish directory or change your build output to dist.
Verify package.json and files are committed
If the build complains about a missing package or a missing source file, first verify that the package is listed in package.json and that any required files are committed to the repo.
If the build error suggests adding a package or file to an "external" config (e.g. rollup/Vite external), do this only after verifying the package is in package.json or that the file was committed.
Node version issues
You are currently using Node v22.21.1 according to the logs (line 11–line 12). If you see runtime errors related to Node version incompatibility, change the Node version by adding an .nvmrc, .node-version, or setting ENGINE in Netlify. See Netlify docs for changing Node versions: https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/manage-dependencies/#node-js-and-javascript
Common error patterns and fixes
"module not found" / Cannot find module X
Ensure X is listed in package.json dependencies (not devDependencies if Netlify installs only production dependencies) or ensure Netlify installs devDependencies (set NODE_ENV or use npm ci).
Commit package.json and package-lock.json after adding dependency, push, then redeploy.
Vite / Rollup unresolved external or bundling error
Verify the referenced package/file is present in package.json or in the repository.
If you must add it to rollupOptions.external, first verify package/file exist, then update vite.config.js:
// vite.config.js
export default {
  build: {
    rollupOptions: {
      external: ['the-package-name']
    }
  }
};
Build script succeeds locally but fails on Netlify
Ensure the same Node version locally as on Netlify, or change Netlify’s Node as above.
Check for environment variables used only in CI; add them in Netlify UI.